.\" Manpage for print
.\" Contact euloanty@live.com to correct errors of typos
.TH PRINT 3 2020-10-25 "fast_io" "C++ Programmer's Manual"
.SH "NAME"
print, println, perr, perrln, panic, panicln, debug_print, debug_println, debug_perr, debug_perrln - output conversion
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <fast_io.h>
.PP
.BI "constexpr void print(args...);"
.BI "constexpr void print([output stream device],args...);"
.BI "constexpr void println(args...);"
.BI "constexpr void println([output stream device],args...);"
.BI "constexpr void perr(args...);"
.BI "constexpr void perrln(args...);"
.BI "constexpr void panic(args...);"
.BI "constexpr void panicln(args...);"
.PP
.BI
.BI "constexpr void debug_print(args...);"
.BI "constexpr void debug_print([output stream device],args...);"
.BI "constexpr void debug_println(args...);"
.BI "constexpr void debug_println([output stream device],args...);"
.BI "constexpr void debug_perr(args...);"
.BI "constexpr void debug_perrln(args...);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions in the
.BR print ()
family produce output.
.PP
Functions which end up ln will print out a newline character after print.
.PP
The functions
.BR print ()
and
.BR println ()
write output to C's
.IR stdout ,
the standard output stream by default;
if the first argument is an output device, it will output to that output device.
.PP
The functions
.BR perr ()
and
.BR perrln ()
write output to
.IR native
stderr, the native standard error stream on your platform, which means it is not synchronized with C's stderr.
They are not buffered stream either. When users call perr or perrln to print data to standard error, they guarantee atomicity of syscalls.
Ignore CRLF on all platforms including Windows.
Equivalent to "print (fast_io::err(),....)" or "println (fast_io::err(),...)"
.PP
The functions
.BR panic ()
and
.BR panicln ()
are equivalent to perr () and perrln (), except the program terminates with a builtin trap.
.PP
.BR debug_print ()
family is basically the same as normal
.BR print ()
family functions, but they are only available under debugging mode. When user defines NDEBUG macro, these functions will not be available. This prevents print leaks for release mode.
.PP
Unlike
.BR print ()
and
.BR println (),
.BR debug_print ()
and
.BR debug_perrln ()
by default print out to
.IR native
stdout, instead of C's stdout , 
when the first argument is not an output device. So even when the program crashes, the data will still get printed out to the standard output.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions have no return value.
.SH PROCESS SAFETY
.BR print ()
family functions guarantee process safety when output device is not an buffered output stream.
.SH THREAD SAFETY
Thread safety depends on whether the output device satisfies the mutex stream concept. For example, fast_io::c_stdout() is thread-safe. print to c_stdout is thread-safe if underlining libc provides thread-safety for FILE*. If the output device is process-safe, it is thread-safe too.
.SH EXCEPTIONS
When print () family functions fail, they throw exceptions. These functions are exception safe.
.SH EXAMPLE
print out "Hello World\en" to C's stdout
.PP
.in +8n
.EX
#include<fast_io.h>

int main()
{
	print("Hello World\en");
}
.EE
.in -8n
.PP
print out "Hello World\en" to an output device. Here we use fast_io::out() as an example.
.PP
.in +8n
.EX
#include<fast_io.h>

int main()
{
	print(fast_io::out(),"Hello World\en");
}
.EE
.in -8n
.BR
.PP
print out multiple args.
.PP
.in +8n
.EX
#include<fast_io.h>

int main()
{
	println("hello ",3," ",4," ",5," ",6," ",7," ",8);
}
.EE
.in -8n
The best practice (with fast_io) to print char const * ("Hello world!") to C's stdout:
.PP
.in +8n
.EX
#include <fast_io.h>

int main()
{
	char const *str = "Hello world!";
	
	println("str = ", str); // this will print the pointer's value instead of the string. See the correct solutions above:
	println("str = ", std::string_view(str)); // use std::string_view instead
	println("str = ", fast_io::mnp::chvw(str));    // use  fast_io::chvw()
}
.EE
.in -8n
.PP
print char to C's stdout:
.PP
.in +8n
.EX
#include <fast_io.h>

int main()
{
	char ch = 'Y';
	println(ch); // this will print the ASCII code (89) of 'Y' instead character 'Y'
	println(fast_io::mnp::chvw(ch)); // this can print 'Y'
}
.EE
.in -8n
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR native_file (3),
.BR c_file (3),
.BR scan (3),
.BR concat (3),
.BR concatln (3),
.BR to (3),
.BR obuf_file (3),
.BR nt_file (3),
.BR win32_file (3),
.BR posix_file (3),
.BR c_file_unlocked (3),
.BR filebuf_file (3),
.BR socket_file (3),
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of 2628 version of the
.I fast_io
project.
Wiki can be found out in https://github.com/expnkx/fast_io/wiki